Hey so if you're running at a high resolution higher than 14 40 P Or you're just struggling to see the
icons in GIMP when you first start it up then this lectures for you if you're absolutely fine.
You can see everything clearly then skip forward to the next lecture.
So let's have a look now at my laptop screen.
That's in for case.
Go for a resolution.
And when I open it up and launch guimpe things are just a little bit crazy.
And let's just let's load up now if we take a quick look in the top left.
You see that the icons are tiny.
I can hardly see them.
And if we zoom in on the top right.
Going to have to zoom in here.
These icons are minuscule.
I can not get there with my mouse.
This makes the whole program of course completely unusable.
High resolutions.
However there are a couple of ways we can solve this.
Right so using the high resolutions may lead to help.
I can not see my icons.
So what we're about to discuss in some people's minds will be quite techie quite geeky.
I've grown up with tech all my life.
So sometimes it's hard to slip back into a complete newbie.
You're just using a computer and you don't know the ins and outs particularly around things like resolution
et cetera.
If you do have a friend and you are of course struggling with GIMP if you do have a high resolution
screen if you are struggling and you don't feel that you can do anything in this yourself do ask for
help even from a friend or even someone in the community as well we've got lots of people more than
willing to help you out.
So don't stall at this point if you can't use GIMP because it's super high resolution.
Do shout out for help.
And with that in mind let's dive in now to the details of using GIMP at high resolutions.
Now of course if you can see orion's Feel free to skip this lecture.
Now this is mainly for 14 40 PE and higher resolutions especially when youre running guimpe on something
with a small screen like a laptop.
I had a Microsoft Surface a few months back and I found with that gimp was quite hard to use because
it is a very high resolution screen and it was only 12 inches in a cross so that was quite difficult.
Now there are three main options open to us and this will vary from platform to platform as well.
The third one is going to be Windows specific.
Lower your resolution.
Now this is not an ideal solution but it can solve the issue and you can carry on using game.
Now one of the issues you might have is that it looks a bit fuzzy or it looks a bit wonky think circles
are no longer circles etc..
That might be something you may have to deal with if you just lower your resolution.
You could try using a different guimpe theme design for Heidi.
Now I've not found one that works for me.
If you guys do please do share it with the community so we can use that theme and perhaps even feature
it here on the course as well.
And then the final one is actually editing the registry in Windows.
Now this is something that should be done with caution whenever you do.
But it's not particularly difficult.
Now within five minutes I had guimpe working again because it tells windows Hey I know how to work on
a high BP screen.
And so it just literally magnifies.
So you do end up with GIMP being slightly blurred re in terms of its interface now you do have to obviously
be careful with the graphics program.
If you start to make things blurry but at least you can see your icons even if they are a tad blurry
not as sharp as they were when they were tiny.
Right.
If you do choose Option three.
I just want to show you where a couple of things are on the system.
Okay so let's have a look.
Our file system here.
Now it may vary depending on the installation and version of Windows that you have.
But GIMP does install itself in the program's files directory by default under gimp too and in there
it can get confusing you can search around for a bit but the area you want is the bin folder and the
executable.
The program itself is guimpe dashed two point eight that is the one that you're going to need when you
follow along the instructions and I hear you scream.
Mike you have not given us an amedure ructions.
I'm not going to personally give you the instructions someone else has already written these down.
They've written it down for a program called PhotoShop you might have heard of that and it works with
GIMP just as well.
And that is this guy here Dan and to Nellie and to you and Lee or something along those lines.
Not sure about serration of his name but he's got an issue here with Adobe.
This particular solution works with any program that doesn't feel some work properly on a high resolution
screen.
So do go ahead and follow this if you feel like going down the route.
That's the one I took.
It worked wonderfully for me.
It made guimpe usable again on my laptop.
And don't worry about copying down the you are in the top I've included a link in the description for
this video and also in the resources itself so feel free to go along and try this.
Do remember your editing your registry.
If you do and take care whilst you are in there okay everyone I hope you have found that useful.
If you're running gimp on a high resolution screen.
Now if you do find a different way of managing Gimp I do know that in a future version I believe two
point ten were on two point eight point twenty at the moment I think.
Two point ten is going to enable us to use GIMP natively high resolutions without any workarounds.
But until that comes out we will have to use some form of workaround.
If you find a theme do share it with us and the community so we can all use it.
And if you have any other suggestions of course do shout and let us know.
And now you can see your icons in GIMP.
It's time to start getting comfortable in the interface and I will see you guys in the next lecture.